Hey guys welcome back OK.
This lecture we're going to go over a tool called Kanva and we're gonna explore how we can use it to
create images for Instagram account.
Now I don't know if you use Kamba before but I think it's incredibly useful.
It's a photo editing app that you can use in your browser.
They also have a mobile app version of it as well for iOS and Android.
Similar functionality.
I don't know if it has the exact same functionality as the web version but it's still pretty good.
We're going to look at the web version right now.
That's how I prefer to do it.
I personally like to make all of my graphics and content on the web but it's up to you guys.
We'll cover other apps later on that you can use on your phone on the go.
That can be pretty convenient sometimes.
OK so go to Kanva dot com.
It's Kanva kind of like canvas but minus the S and it kind of just looks like this.
So the app itself is completely free.
If you want to upgrade to add things like custom fonts or think it's clearly as fonts and setting a
brand like brand guidelines for colors things that just save you time then you can upgrade but it's
not really something that's expensive I think it's like $4 a month or something like that.
And that's if you find that you you need more than the free version anyway so go ahead and sign up and
you'll eventually get your screen that looks like this.
OK.
So here over on the left it allows you to just see all of your designs designs that you shared.
It allows you to create teams which is pretty helpful if you have other people who are making content.
Then you can pay for one account and then they can borrow it as well and then you can do things like
your brand if you're a pro count and then find templates down here you can see that I have a bunch of
folders because I use Kanva for pretty much all of my courses.
That's why one of the go to I'm going to use for Instagram.
So the way that it works is you pick a type of posting and then you'll pick a form that will automatically
give you a formatted canvas for you to just throw a bunch of templates images text icons really anything
onto it and then they have these kind of drag and drop tools that allow you to edit things pretty easily.
Once you make something it shows up kind of over here in this area.
So if we wanted to make an Instagram post you wouldn't click Facebook obviously you wouldn't pick social
media because that's just generic.
What you do is it more and then go down to Instagram post right here.
Now the difference many Instagram posting other ones all this is Tenny by 10:08 which is perfect.
But also these ones are more generic and I'll show you how if you do end up getting stuck with a template
or sizing you don't like there's some pretty cool tools for converting it to the size that you want
on Instagram.
OK so we've got that.
And here we go.
This is our image canvas.
And then it's pretty much up to us to fill with what we want.
So we'll start over here with layouts with layouts.
They just give you templates and this is probably one of the fastest ways to put stuff together if you're
doing motivational quotes on your account.
For instance you could make something in Kanva in about five minutes.
I mean it's crazy.
I can just do this edit the quote throw in my logo and I'm done.
And I don't know I think they would take me probably a minute.
But what I think is really useful is just to go through these templates.
For me it's incredibly helpful to see something that pre-designed pre stylized.
And then I can look at it and see how they did the visual composition.
I can also see what effects they did to get rid of the backgrounds in some situations.
So like here it's a big text it's on your case is a very specific font and the white contrast with the
red.
That's pretty cool.
If you'd notice oftentimes these templates you can if you look at the way it's kind of laid out sometimes
you can swap out photos that you have as long as it matches the same rough visual composition.
So check these out.
They have literally like thousands and thousands of these.
Eventually you'll get to the point where they have paid ones.
But at the same time it's like a dollar each.
I mean I don't think you'll ever even exhaust all of the free ones they have.
There's so many so right there is just a huge win.
I mean you could just just copy any of these.
Tweak it a little bit to fit your thing and you're pretty much done as I use this all the time for inspiration
just for oh it looks cool.
Never kind of thought of putting it that way.
Like here's one you will see all the time on Instagram with a quote so logo then you put a background
image and you saturate it and make it black and white and then you put this.
And then again put your tag over here.
That's an incredibly common one.
If you wanted to just edit this you could just change it to your colors.
So if you wanted to edit it let's say we were going to do this for innovation inspiration or we could
do is just click these colored boxes over here and then up on the top left we can pick a color.
OK.
Now it gives you a bunch of default ones that you can use and these are all kind of pastel So colors
they'll look pretty good and they're all made for social media if you want to add your own.
Use it plus and then pick on this color wheel.
Generally the way that I copy colors is I use a hex code.
If you guys use Photoshop it's a really easy way of doing it.
So I might change this one to one of our primary colors which was this kind of orange red.
Those at the bottom of that graphic where it's taking off.
You can see it right here.
This is kind of with the graphic.
So down here is that Orange and it ends up in this balloon.
So really we can have that a purple and a blue.
So we'll try to recreate that and then it really kind of comes down to like tweaking.
So you can change this.
It's
Try to keep this the same color and go change this to maybe the purple or the blue that we have.
So that might look a little bit better in this case and might maybe put a white background behind this
or something along those lines and if we want to do that go over here to the elements tab and the elements
tab gives us a whole section of things that we can play around with.
So they have free photos.
They're all high resolution and they're all royalty free.
You can insert these instead of some of the backgrounds they have that's super useful.
They have tons and tons and tons of these just the easiest way to do it is just to search for something
you want so I can say like rocket
any rocket than photos.
And here we go now we have a bunch of rocket type images.
So could probably put this in.
There we go.
So I just kind of drop it and it will automatically resize it for me and copy the same dispatcher ization
that we saw.
So that's really easy if you kind of notice down here that we're having issues with visibility.
So what you would do is just again back to elements these are your photos but you can add shapes.
So I would just go to shape and give you a bunch of shapes to choose from and then what would you pick.
Probably a square in this case and I would probably Let's see.
Can you make this white or one of our primary colors.
Looks and then if I want to appear behind the tax go up here to a range and you sit back and just keep
doing that until there you go.
I more forward.
OK.
So you know you could do it like that and maybe we change that bottom tax to our purple.
All right so that makes a little more sense.
You just treat this a little bit.
So it looks a little bit better.
I wanted to I could use this button right here.
This looks like a transparency.
Click that and I can make the opacity change.
So depending on how much of an effect I needed to make that text pop out I could do a little bit make
it a little opaque could I.
So then you can kind of still see the outline a little bit.
That's probably not super effective on Instagram post just because the images are going too small in
your phone to notice that.
So just throw it back up.
All right it's going back to exploring the elements tab over here with other things.
We have frames of what frames are essentially are our kind of like the collages we saw in the Instagram
app when we did the walkthrough that basically the same way this works is I would throw one of these
on and then you see this little Illustrated landscape.
I'm then able to pick an image and throw it into that landscape.
So if it's some weird thing like this I can pick four images to put in.
It can be kind of useful sometimes if you want to put an image in say like a bubble.
You might have seen these in my courses all actually just take a frame like this it just throw it in
and then I can just toss an image inside of it and automatically resize so if I did that.
There you go.
Now you have a circular slack ok.
Back to the elements tab.
The frames are worth playing around with.
Sometimes you can make interesting effects.
Sometimes they can help you like for instance you can throw in an iPhone if you want to make something
that has an iPhone or Android and that can actually save you a lot of time.
Grids are a little bit different.
That's kind of the same thing but it automatically takes over the entire screen.
So it's meant for the entire image and gerät frame is more about putting these images inside of something
so it has an outline around it.
But as things were looking at our illustrations windes icons charts and then they have some other categories
of just a little more specific if you want to get into that.
You know they have illustrations that can be sometimes useful if it fits your brand profile.
Usually illustrations you can edit the colors.
So what gives you the palette right here.
So if I wanted to you know make this fit my aesthetic I could just change these colors the same way
I did it before.
So maybe I change the red into my red and you turn blue to purple and then the one turns blue.
OK.
You know that's the if that's what I wanted to do.
Illustrations are useful lines also.
You know if you want to put some way to make a custom frame or anything you want to throw on there lines
can be pretty helpful because they have arrows in them so a lot of times you make an image you want
to point to it.
That's a pretty common social media technique and it works pretty well except gravitates people's attention
towards that one thing they see are the one thing the arrows point to that can be pretty useful.
The other ones are pretty self-explanatory.
I mean they just kind of divided them up like here it's going to be images and illustrations.
And here it's going to be people just stock photos of people that's great.
Now if you want to tax this over here you get taxed and it's fairly simple.
You can add a heading and subheading and then these are some preset things that you can do so don't
put a big piece of text and be like right there.
And the reason why this comes out and Proxima Nova is because I'm using a pro account in the pro count
allows me to set the default font to proxy even though which is that I use it only of course as you've
probably seen it text is also pretty helpful because they'll give you examples of text compositions
that you can throw in and they're like ready to go pretty much.
I could blow this up to cover the entire screen if I wanted to.
So if I wanted to make my own little thing I could just delete everything on here drag delete.
Then I could go here grab some images.
We'd say a rocket again like that on the than we can use I can resize it over here.
OK.
There we go.
And then you go to taxed and throw in something like this and see how it fits and I can expand it turn
it into let's say a white color match that barefoot and or I can just throw in a shape to cover it up
like you just saw me do
it.
OK.
I mean that's kind of how you have the making of an Instagram post.
There were things worth covering I think or you'll notice when you click on elements on the canvas you
can change things up here so things will be different.
You can grow and resize it you can change the orientation like that all the talents you can group things
together.
That's pretty helpful say if you like making like bullet points that way that when you move one bullet
point you can move all over them.
And if you want to ungroup them you basically just click one of the things in the group and ungroup
you probably won't use this button.
This link button because you can't use links and Instagram images anyway so I'd probably just ignore
that.
Blessings worth looking at over here.
You have the background tab and the background tab just gives you a lot of you can guess it backgrounds.
Really these are going to be more patterns than anything.
So we might have something like this.
And you know this stuff works.
You'll see there's quite a bit on people's Instagram pages.
So use some funky background because it's just focusing on the image or focusing on the tax that's in
front of it.
Whatever you do just make sure that it fits that brand profile or the content strategy that you outline
before then you have uploads and upload is also pretty self-explanatory what you do and uploads is you
upload things that's it.
I mean the way you do it is you can upload something by clicking here or you can just drag and drop
from one end and then all of a sudden you have images that you can use that you can see some of these
images you've seen in my courses.
Now when you're done with your image what you can do is just go up here to download or you can share
directly to your social account if you want to.
It's not generally something that I suggest.
I usually just download it.
Then I can do something else if I want to.
So you want to make some public just go up here quick public and then all of a sudden when you get people
share links they can actually see it.
So what you can do is come here to link grab the link right there just copy it.
And then if you send it to someone they can view it themselves and it shouldn't force them to create
an account but it will ask them to if they want to edit it in some way cool.
That's it.
The only thing I think worth checking out is what's called the magic resize button and that's over here
you go to magic resize.
So what I'm saying before is if you made something and you're using the wrong size or maybe you're using
a square and you decide hey I want to do the landscape which is 80 by 10.
And then you said you want you 19:20 by 2080.
Well you can do is change the dimensions manually here and then just type it in and change it or you
use magic resize on my favorites what it will do is it will copy this and resize it automatically for
you and you can do it for multiple things at a time.
So it is really only useful if you did something in the wrong format and then want to ship it to Instagram
but you can kind of see the same effect if say I want it to send to do a Facebook addresses is very
similar.
So there you go it's automatically resized to deal with any of that.
Oh you guys canvas super cool.
Check it out.
It's FREE.
I think it's a powerhouse for making image posts especially if you have a use for like illustrations
and a lot of free photos and backgrounds and elements and things like that.
Next lecture you're going to watch me make an actual photo for our Instagram account and I can kind
of show you the finishing touches.
I'll put you can skip that if you want to.
Totally up to you.
I don't care.
All right.
See you next lecture.